{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red40\green98\blue162;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red38\green38\blue38;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12140\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ===============================\
Coursera: Getting and Cleaning Data - Week 4 Assignment\
===============================\
\
Raw data for the assignment were obtained here:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip}}\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 \
A full description of how the raw data were obtained is here:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones}}\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\
\cf4 \cb1 \ulnone The \'93Thoughtful Bloke\'94 blog was referenced in completion of this assignment:\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://thoughtfulbloke.wordpress.com/2015/09/09/getting-and-cleaning-the-assignment/"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 https://thoughtfulbloke.wordpress.com/2015/09/09/getting-and-cleaning-the-assignment/}}\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
=============\
The tasks required for the assignment were:\cf5 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \'93create one R script called run_analysis.R that does the following.\
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0   1.	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl420\sa200\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf5 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0   2. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0   3. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0   4. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl420\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf5 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0   5. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.\'94\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl420\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb1 (see {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.coursera.org/learn/data-cleaning/peer/FIZtT/getting-and-cleaning-data-course-project"}}{\fldrslt https://www.coursera.org/learn/data-cleaning/peer/FIZtT/getting-and-cleaning-data-course-project}})\
\
============\
The document \'93run_analysis.R\'94 contains the R source code to complete the assigned tasks. It was created in Studio Version 0.99.902 on a Mac running OS X El Capitan. To run the script in R, use the code:\
\
source(\'93path/run_analysis.R\'94)  where path is the path to the directory where the file is stored\
=============\
\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl420\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \outl0\strokewidth0 Why are the data produced by the R script \'93tidy\'94? In short, because they meet the criteria described in week 1 of the Coursera \'93Getting and Cleaning Data\'94 course. That is, there is one variable per column. There is one observation per row. NOTE: the data are in \'93long form\'94 with multiple rows per subject. However, because each row represents a single observation of each subject, this configuration still meets the criterion of one observation per row. The dataset includes an ID variable for matching with other tables. Finally, the dataset includes 1 \'93kind\'94 of variable (i.e., variables relating to the accelerometer tests used to obtain the raw data).\
\
===============\
The dataset includes the following files:\
1. Week-4-assignment-read-me.rtf\
2. Codebook.txt\
3. tidyData.txt\
\
\cf5 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 =============\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl420\partightenfactor0
\cf5 The R script is annotated to provide details about what the steps that were taken and what the code does. The script includes code to load the necessary packages. NOTE: the plyr package is loaded only at the end of the script when it is needed, because it masks functions from the dplyr package that are used in the early steps of the script. \
\
Task 1 - \cf6 \outl0\strokewidth0 Merge the training and the test sets to create one data set\
\cf5 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 The first task is divided into four steps: 1) read in the datasets and View them, 2) add labels to datasets, 3) combine test data and training data, respectively, and 4) merge test and training data. NOTE: step 2 of this process also achieves the requirements of Task 4 for the assignment. \cf6 \outl0\strokewidth0 The command \
colnames(trainData) <- features[,2] \
is the command that assigns \'93descriptive variable names\'94 as required for Task 4 of the assignment.\
\cf5 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 \
Task 2 - \cf6 \outl0\strokewidth0 Extract only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement\
This code uses the grepl() function and subsetting to create a new dataset containing only variables with names containing the string sequences \'93mean\'94 or \'93std\'94, as well as the variables \'93ID\'94 and \'93testtype\'94.\
\
Task 3 - Use descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set\
Descriptive activity names are provided by merging the \'93activityLabels\'94 and \'93meanStdData\'94 data frames, matching by the numeric \'93testtype\'94 variable found in both datasets.\
\
Task 4 -  Appropriately label the data set with descriptive variable names\
This was accomplished in Step 2 under Task 1. Please see above for details.\
\
Task 5 - From the data set in step 4, create a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject\
NOTE: This task uses the ddply() function from the plyr package. If you do not have the plyr package, you will need to install it. You can do so by removing the \'93#\'94 from the command line:\
#install.packages(\'93plyr\'94)\
in the run_analysis.R script.\
Code for this task takes the dataset tidyData and uses the ddply() function to group the data first by testtype, then by ID (subject), and then provide means for each variable by subject (ID) for each testtype. The resulting dataset is saved as a text file using the command:\
write.table(tidyData, "tidy_data.txt", row.name=FALSE)\
\
To read the data into R, you can use the code\
read.table(\'93path/tidy_data.txt\'94, header = TRUE)  where \'93path\'94 is the path to the directory where the file is stored\
}